client/lib/create-selector/README.md, before:

`create-selector`
=================

This module exports a single function which creates a memoized state selector for use with the Redux global application state.

## Usage

`createSelector` accepts the following arguments:

- A function which calculates the cached result given a state object and any number of variable arguments necessary to calculate the result
- A function or array of functions which return array of dependent state, given the state and the same arguments as the selector
- _(Optional)_ A function to customize the cache key used by the inner memoized function

For example, we might consider that our state contains post objects, each of which are assigned to a particular site. Retrieving an array of posts for a specific site would require us to filter over all of the known posts. While this would normally be an expensive operation, we can use `createSelector` to create a memoized function:

```js
export const getSitePosts = createSelector(
	( state, siteId ) => state.posts.filter( ( post ) => post.site_ID === siteId ),
	( state ) => [ state.posts ]
);
```

In using the selector, we only need to consider the signature of the first function argument. In this case, we'll need to pass a state object and site ID.

```js
const sitePosts = getSitePosts( state, siteId );
```

This result would only be calculated once, so long as `state.posts` remains the same.

## FAQ

### What is a memoized selector?

We strive to keep redundant data out of our Redux state tree, but this can come at the cost of performance if our selectors are time-consuming in how they evaluate and filter over the minimal state.

A memoized selector can alleviate this concern by storing a cached result, skipping these expensive derivations when we know that the result has already been computed once before from the same state.

### How does a memoized selector know when to recalculate its result?

Because Redux discourages us from mutating state directly, we can be confident that state is only considered to be changed if the segments of the state tree we're concerned with are strictly unequal to a previous state.

When creating a memoized selector via `createSelector`, we pass a function which returns a value or array of values comprising of the parts of the tree we depend upon for our selector.

### Can I pass arguments to my memoized selector?

Yes! This is a very common pattern in our state selectors, and is a key differentiator from [`reselect`](https://github.com/reactjs/reselect), another popular tool which achieves a similar goal.

Do note that the internal memoized function calculates its cache key by a simple [`Array.prototype.join`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/join) call, so your arguments should not be complex objects.

### How can I express that my new selector depends on state from multiple selectors?

Let's assume your new selector depends on the state selectors `foo`, `bar`, and `baz`. You could then state that like so:

```js
createSelector(
    state => foo( state ) && bar( state ),
    state => [
        foo( state ),
        bar( state ),
        baz( state ),
    ]
);
```

Since this is a reoccurring pattern, there is a shorthand for this situation. You can reduce the above to an array just the selectors:

```js
createSelector(
    state => foo( state ) && bar( state ),
    [ foo, bar, baz ]
);
```

### How can I access the internal cache?

While you should rarely need to do so, you can manage the internal Lodash `memoize.Cache` instance on the `memoizedSelector` property of the returned function.

Commit message:

Documentation: Reword part of CreateSelector documentation to make it easier to understand how to use the module.

client/lib/create-selector/README.md, after:

`create-selector`
=================

This module exports a single function which creates a memoized state selector for use with the Redux global application state.

## Usage

`createSelector` accepts the following arguments:

- A function which selects data from the state. Given a state object and any number of other arguments it calculates a result, which is cached for later reuse.
- A function which returns the part or parts of the state tree the selector depends on. This can be a single value or an array.
- _(Optional)_ A function to customize the cache key used by the inner memoized function

For example, our state contains post objects, each of which is assigned to a particular site. To retrieve an array of posts for a specific site, we'd have to filter over all of the known posts. While this would normally be an expensive operation, we can use `createSelector` to create a memoized function:

```js
export const getSitePosts = createSelector(
	( state, siteId ) => state.posts.filter( ( post ) => post.site_ID === siteId ),
	( state ) => [ state.posts ]
);
```

To use the selector created with `createSelector`, we only need to consider the signature of the function we passed as the first argument. In this case, we'll need to pass a state object and site ID.

```js
const sitePosts = getSitePosts( state, siteId );
```

This result would only be calculated once, so long as `state.posts` remains the same.

## FAQ

### What is a memoized selector?

We strive to keep redundant data out of our Redux state tree, but this can come at the cost of performance if our selectors are time-consuming in how they evaluate and filter over the minimal state.

A memoized selector can alleviate this concern by storing a cached result, skipping these expensive derivations when we know that the result has already been computed once before from the same state.

### How does a memoized selector know when to recalculate its result?

Because Redux discourages us from mutating state directly, we can be confident that state is only considered to be changed if the segments of the state tree we're concerned with are strictly unequal to a previous state.

When creating a memoized selector via `createSelector`, we pass a function which returns a value or array of values comprising of the parts of the tree we depend upon for our selector.

### Can I pass arguments to my memoized selector?

Yes! This is a very common pattern in our state selectors, and is a key differentiator from [`reselect`](https://github.com/reactjs/reselect), another popular tool which achieves a similar goal.

Do note that the internal memoized function calculates its cache key by a simple [`Array.prototype.join`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/join) call, so your arguments should not be complex objects.

### How can I express that my new selector depends on state from multiple selectors?

Let's assume your new selector depends on the state selectors `foo`, `bar`, and `baz`. You could then state that like so:

```js
createSelector(
    state => foo( state ) && bar( state ),
    state => [
        foo( state ),
        bar( state ),
        baz( state ),
    ]
);
```

Since this is a recurring pattern, there is a shorthand for this situation. You can reduce the above to an array just the selectors:

```js
createSelector(
    state => foo( state ) && bar( state ),
    [ foo, bar, baz ]
);
```

### How can I access the internal cache?

While you should rarely need to do so, you can manage the internal Lodash `memoize.Cache` instance on the `memoizedSelector` property of the returned function.
